---
title: The Computer for the 21st Century
date: 2017-10-25 14:25:33
tags: 普适计算
categories: 普适计算 
---

# Mark Weiser

The most profound technologies are those that disappear. They weave themselves into the fabric of everyday life until they are indistinguishable from it.

Consider writing, perhaps the first information technology: The ability to capture a symbolic representation of spoken language for long-term storage freed information from the limits of individual memory. Today this technology is ubiquitous in industrialized countries. Not only do books, magazines and newspapers convey written information, but so do street signs, billboards, shop signs and even graffiti. Candy wrappers are covered in writing. The constant background presence of these products of "literacy technology" does not require active attention, but the information to be conveyed is ready for use at a glance. It is difficult to imagine modern life otherwise.

Silicon-based information technology, in contrast, is far from having become part of the environment. More than 50 million personal computers have been sold, and nonetheless the computer remains largely in a world of its own. It is approachable only through complex jargon that has nothing to do with the tasks for which which people actually use computers. The state of the art is perhaps analogous to the period when scribes had to know as much about making ink or baking clay as they did about writing.

The arcane aura that surrounds personal computers is not just a "user interface" problem. My colleagues and I at PARC think that the idea of a "personal" computer itself is misplaced, and that the vision of laptop machines, dynabooks and "knowledge navigators" is only a transitional step toward achieving the real potential of information technology. Such machines cannot truly make computing an integral, invisible part of the way people live their lives. Therefore we are trying to conceive a new way of thinking about computers in the world, one that takes into account the natural human environment and allows the computers themselves to vanish into the background.

Such a disappearance is a fundamental consequence not of technology, but of human psychology. Whenever people learn something sufficiently well, they cease to be aware of it. When you look at a street sign, for example, you absorb its information without consciously performing the act of reading.. Computer scientist, economist, and Nobelist Herb Simon calls this phenomenon "compiling"; philosopher Michael Polanyi calls it the "tacit dimension"; psychologist TK Gibson calls it "visual invariants"; philosophers Georg Gadamer and Martin Heidegger call it "the horizon" and the "ready-to-hand", John Seely Brown at PARC calls it the "periphery". All say, in essence, that only when things disappear in this way are we freed to use them without thinking and so to focus beyond them on new goals.

The idea of integrating computers seamlessly into the world at large runs counter to a number of present-day trends. "Ubiquitous computing" in this context does not just mean computers that can be carried to the beach, jungle or airport. Even the most powerful notebook computer, with access to a worldwide information network, still focuses attention on a single box. By analogy to writing, carrying a super-laptop is like owning just one very important book. Customizing this book, even writing millions of other books, does not begin to capture the real power of literacy.

Furthermore, although ubiquitous computers may employ sound and video in addition to text and graphics, that does not make them "multimedia computers." Today's multimedia machine makes the computer screen into a demanding focus of attention rather than allowing it to fade into the background.

Perhaps most diametrically opposed to our vision is the notion of "virtual reality," which attempts to make a world inside the computer. Users don special goggles that project an artificial scene on their eyes; they wear gloves or even body suits that sense their motions and gestures so that they can move about and manipulate virtual objects. Although it may have its purpose in allowing people to explore realms otherwise inaccessible -- the insides of cells, the surfaces of distant planets, the information web of complex databases -- virtual reality is only a map, not a territory. It excludes desks, offices, other people not wearing goggles and body suits, weather, grass, trees, walks, chance encounters and in general the infinite richness of the universe. Virtual reality focuses an enormous apparatus on simulating the world rather than on invisibly enhancing the world that already exists.

Indeed, the opposition between the notion of virtual reality and ubiquitous, invisible computing is so strong that some of us use the term "embodied virtuality" to refer to the process of drawing computers out of their electronic shells. The "virtuality" of computer-readable data -- all the different ways in which it can be altered, processed and analyzed -- is brought into the physical world.

How do technologies disappear into the background? The vanishing of electric motors may serve as an instructive example: At the turn of the century, a typical workshop or factory contained a single engine that drove dozens or hundreds of different machines through a system of shafts and pulleys. Cheap, small, efficient electric motors made it possible first to give each machine or tool its own source of motive force, then to put many motors into a single machine.

A glance through the shop manual of a typical automobile, for example, reveals twenty-two motors and twenty-five more solenoids. They start the engine, clean the windshield, lock and unlock the doors, and so on. By paying careful attention it might be possible to know whenever one activated a motor, but there would be no point to it.

Most of the computers that participate in embodied virtuality will be invisible in fact as well as in metaphor. Already computers in light switches, thermostats, stereos and ovens help to activate the world. These machines and more will be interconnected in a ubiquitous network. As computer scientists, however, my colleagues and I have focused on devices that transmit and display information more directly. We have found two issues of crucial importance: location and scale. Little is more basic to human perception than physical juxtaposition, and so ubiquitous computers must know where they are. (Today's computers, in contrast, have no idea of their location and surroundings.) If a computer merely knows what room it is in, it can adapt its behavior in significant ways without requiring even a hint of artificial intelligence.

Ubiquitous computers will also come in different sizes, each suited to a particular task. My colleagues and I have built what we call tabs, pads and boards: inch-scale machines that approximate active Post-It notes, foot-scale ones that behave something like a sheet of paper (or a book or a magazine), and yard-scale displays that are the equivalent of a blackboard or bulletin board.

How many tabs, pads, and board-sized writing and display surfaces are there in a typical room? Look around you: at the inch scale include wall notes, titles on book spines, labels on controls, thermostats and clocks, as well as small pieces of paper. Depending upon the room you may see more than a hundred tabs, ten or twenty pads, and one or two boards. This leads to our goals for initially deploying the hardware of embodied virtuality: hundreds of computers per room.

Hundreds of computers in a room could seem intimidating at first, just as hundreds of volts coursing through wires in the walls did at one time. But like the wires in the walls, these hundreds of computers will come to be invisible to common awareness. People will simply use them unconsciously to accomplish everyday tasks.

Tabs are the smallest components of embodied virtuality. Because they are interconnected, tabs will expand on the usefulness of existing inch-scale computers such as the pocket calculator and the pocket organizer. Tabs will also take on functions that no computer performs today. For example, Olivetti Cambridge Research Labs pioneered active badges, and now computer scientists at PARC and other research laboratories around the world are working with these clip-on computers roughly the size of an employee ID card. These badges can identify themselves to receivers placed throughout a building, thus making it possible to keep track of the people or objects to which they are attached.

In our experimental embodied virtuality, doors open only to the right badge wearer, rooms greet people by name, telephone calls can be automatically forwarded to wherever the recipient may be, receptionists actually know where people are, computer terminals retrieve the preferences of whoever is sitting at them, and appointment diaries write themselves. No revolution in artificial intelligence is needed--just the proper imbedding of computers into the everday world. The automatic diary shows how such a simple thing as knowing where people are can yield complex dividends: meetings, for example, consist of several people spending time in the same room, and the subject of a meeting is most likely the files called up on that room's display screen while the people are there.

My colleague Roy Want has designed a tab incorporating a small display that can serve simultaneously as an active badge, calendar and diary. It will also act as an extension to computer screens: instead of shrinking a program window down to a small icon on the screen, for example, a user will be able to shrink the window onto a tab display. This will leave the screen free for information and also let people arrange their computer-based projects in the area around their terminals, much as they now arrange paper-based projects in piles on desks and tables. Carrying a project to a different office for discussion is a simple as gathering up its tabs; the associated programs and files can be called up on any terminal.

The next step up in size is the pad, something of a cross between a sheet of paper and current laptop and palmtop computers. Bob Krivacic at PARC has built a prototype pad that uses two microprocessors, a workstation-sized display, a multi-button stylus, and a radio network that can potentially handle hundreds of devices per person per room.

Pads differ from conventional portable computers in one crucial way. Whereas portable computers go everywhere with their owners, the pad that must be carried from place to place is a failure. Pads are intended to be "scrap computers" (analogous to scrap paper) that can be grabbed and used anywhere; they have no individualized identity or importance.

One way to think of pads is as an antidote to windows. Windows were invented at PARC and popularized by Apple in the Macintosh as a way of fitting several different activities onto the small space of a computer screen at the same time. In twenty years computer screens have not grown much larger. Computer window systems are often said to be based on the desktop metaphor--but who would ever use a desk whose surface area is only 9" by 11"?

Pads, in contrast, use a real desk. Spread many electronic pads around on the desk, just as you spread out papers. Have many tasks in front of you and use the pads as reminders. Go beyond the desk to drawers, shelves, coffee tables. Spread the many parts of the many tasks of the day out in front of you to fit both the task and the reach of your arms and eyes, rather than to fit the limitations of CRT glass-blowing. Someday pads may even be as small and light as actual paper, but meanwhile they can fulfill many more of paper's functions than can computer screens.

Yard-size displays (boards) serve a number of purposes: in the home, video screens and bulletin boards; in the office, bulletin boards, whiteboards or flip charts. A board might also serve as an electronic bookcase from which one might download texts to a pad or tab. For the time being, however, the ability to pull out a book and place it comfortably on one's lap remains one of the many attractions of paper. Similar objections apply to using a board as a desktop; people will have to get used to using pads and tabs on a desk as an adjunct to computer screens before taking embodied virtuality even further.

Boards built by Richard Bruce and Scott Elrod at PARC currently measure about 40 by 60 inches and display 1024x768 black-and-white pixels. To manipulate the display, users pick up a piece of wireless electronic "chalk" that can work either in contact with the surface or from a distance. Some researchers, using themselves and their coleagues as guinea pigs, can hold electronically mediated meetings or engage in other forms of collaboration around a liveboard. Others use the boards as testbeds for improved display hardware, new "chalk" and interactive software.

For both obvious and subtle reasons, the software that animates a large, shared display and its electronic chalk is not the same as that for a workstation. Switching back and forth between chalk and keyboard may involve walking several steps, and so the act is qualitatively different from using a keyboard and mouse. In addition, body size is an issue -- not everyone can reach the top of the board, so a Macintosh-style menu bar may not be a good idea.

We have built enough liveboards to permit casual use: they have been placed in ordinary conference rooms and open areas, and no one need sign up or give advance notice before using them. By building and using these boards, researchers start to experience and so understand a world in which computer interaction casually enhances every room. Liveboards can usefully be shared across rooms as well as within them. In experiments instigated by Paul Dourish of EuroPARC and Sara Bly and Frank Halasz of PARC, groups at widely separated sites gathered around boards -- each displaying the same image -- and jointly composed pictures and drawings. They have even shared two boards across the Atlantic.

Liveboards can also be used as bulletin boards. There is already too much data for people to read and comprehend all of it, and so Marvin Theimer and David Nichols at PARC have built a prototype system that attunes its public information to the people reading it. Their "scoreboard" requires little or no interaction from the user other than to look and to wear an active badge.

Prototype tabs, pads and boards are just the beginning of ubiquitous computing. The real power of the concept comes not from any one of these devices; it emerges from the interaction of all of them. The hundreds of processors and displays are not a "user interface" like a mouse and windows, just a pleasant and effective "place" to get things done.

What will be most pleasant and effective is that tabs can animate objects previously inert. They can beep to help locate mislaid papers, books or other items. File drawers can open and show the desired folder -- no searching. Tabs in library catalogs can make active maps to any book and guide searchers to it, even if it is off the shelf and on a table from the last reader.

In presentations, the size of text on overhead slides, the volume of the amplified voice, even the amount of ambient light, can be determined not by accident or guess but by the desires of the listeners in the room at that moment. Software tools for instant votes and consensus checking are already in specialized use in electronic meeting rooms of large corporations; tabs can make them widespread.

The technology required for ubiquitous computing comes in three parts: cheap, low-power computers that include equally convenient displays, a network that ties them all together, and software systems implementing ubiquitous applications. Current trends suggest that the first requirement will easily be met. Flat-panel displays containing 640x480 black-and-white pixels are now common. This is the standard size for PC's and is also about right for television. As long as laptop, palmtop and notebook computers continue to grow in popularity, display prices will fall, and resolution and quality will rise. By the end of the decade, a 1000x800-pixel high-contrast display will be a fraction of a centimeter thick and weigh perhaps 100 grams. A small battery will provide several days of continuous use.

Larger displays are a somewhat different issue. If an interactive computer screen is to match a whiteboard in usefulness, it must be viewable from arm's length as well as from across a room. For close viewing the density of picture elements should be no worse than on a standard computer screen, about 80 per inch. Maintaining a density of 80 pixels per inch over an area several feet on a side implies displaying tens of millions of pixels. The biggest computer screen made today has only about one fourth this capacity. Such large displays will probably be expensive, but they should certainly be available.

Central-processing unit speeds, meanwhile, reached a million instructions per second in 1986 and continue to double each year. Some industry observers believe that this exponential growth in raw chip speed may begin to level off about 1994, but that other measures of performance, including power consumption and auxiliary functions, will still improve. The 100-gram flat-panel display, then, might be driven by a single microprocessor chip that executes a billion operations per second and contains 16 megabytes of onboard memory along with sound, video and network interfaces. Such a processor would draw, on average, a few percent of the power required by the display.

Auxiliary storage devices will augment the memory capacity. Conservative extrapolation of current technology suggests that match-book size removable hard disks (or the equivalent nonvolatile memory chips) will store about 60 megabytes each. Larger disks containing several gigabytes of information will be standard, and terabyte storage -- roughly the capacity of the Library of Congress -- will be common. Such enormous stores will not necessarily be filled to capacity with usable information. Abundant space will, however, allow radically different strategies of information management. A terabyte of space makes deleting old files virtually unnecessary, for example.

Although processors and displays should be capable of offering ubiquitous computing by the end of the decade, trends in software and network technology are more problematic. Software systems today barely take any advantage of the computer network. Trends in "distributed computing" are to make networks appear like disks, memory, or other non-networked devices, rather than to exploit the unique capabilities of physical dispersion. The challenges show up in the design of operating systems and window systems.

Today's operating sytems, like DOS and Unix, assume a relatively fixed configuration of hardware and software at their core. This makes sense for both mainframes and personal computers, because hardware or operating system software cannot reasonably be added without shutting down the machine. But in an embodied virtuality, local devices come and go, and depend upon the room and the people in it. New software for new devices may be needed at any time, and you'll never be able to shut off everything in the room at once. Experimental "micro-kernel" operating systems, such as those developed by Rick Rashid at Carnegie-Mellon University and Andy Tanenbaum at Vrije University in Amsterdam, offer one solution. Future operating systems based around tiny kernels of functionality may automatically shrink and grow to fit the dynamically changing needs of ubiquitous computing.

Today's window systems, like Windows 3.0 and the X Window System, assume a fixed base computer on which information will be displayed. Although they can handle multiple screens, they do not do well with applications that start out in one place (screen, computer, or room) and then move to another. For higher performance they assume a fixed screen and input mode and use the local computer to store information about the application--if any of these change, the window system stops working for that application. Even window systems like X that were designed for use over networks have this problem--X still assumes that an application once started stays put. The solutions to this problem are in their infancy. Systems for shared windows, such as those from Brown University and Hewlett-Packard Corporation, help with windows, but have problems of performance, and do not work for all applications. There are no systems that do well with the diversity of inputs to be found in an embodied virtuality. A more general solution will require changing the kinds of protocols by which application programs and windows interact.

The network connecting these computers has its own challenges. On the one hand, data transmission rates for both wired and wireless networks are increasing rapidly. Access to gigabit-per-second wired nets is already possible, although expensive, and will become progressively cheaper. (Gigabit networks will seldom devote all of their bandwidth to a single data stream; instead, they will allow enormous numbers of lower-speed transmissions to proceed simultaneously.) Small wireless networks, based on digital cellular telephone principles, currently offer data rates between two and 10 megabits per second over a range of a few hundred meters. Low-power wireless networks transmitting 250,000 bits per second to each station will eventually be available commercially.

On the other hand, the transparent linking of wired and wireless networks is an unsolved problem. Although some stop-gap methods have been developed, engineers must develop new communication protocols that explicitly recognize the concept of machines that move in physical space. Furthermore the number of channels envisioned in most wireless network schemes is still very small, and the range large (50-100 meters), so that the total number of mobile devices is severely limited. The ability of such a system to support hundreds of machines in every room is out of the question. Single-room networks based on infrared or newer electromagnetic technologies have enough channel capacity for ubiquitous computers, but they can only work indoors.

Present technologies would require a mobile device to have three different network connections: tiny range wireless, long range wireless, and very high speed wired. A single kind of network connection that can somehow serve all three functions has yet to be invented.

Neither an explication of the principles of ubiquitous computing nor a list of the technologies involved really gives a sense of what it would be like to live in a world full of invisible widgets. To extrapolate from today's rudimentary fragments of embodied virtuality resembles an attempt to predict the publication of Finnegan's Wake after just having invented writing on clay tablets. Nevertheless the effort is probably worthwhile:

Sal awakens: she smells coffee. A few minutes ago her alarm clock, alerted by her restless rolling before waking, had quietly asked "coffee?", and she had mumbled "yes." "Yes" and "no" are the only words it knows.

Sal looks out her windows at her neighborhood. Sunlight and a fence are visible through one, but through others she sees electronic trails that have been kept for her of neighbors coming and going during the early morning. Privacy conventions and practical data rates prevent displaying video footage, but time markers and electronic tracks on the neighborhood map let Sal feel cozy in her street.

Glancing at the windows to her kids' rooms she can see that they got up 15 and 20 minutes ago and are already in the kitchen. Noticing that she is up, they start making more noise.

At breakfast Sal reads the news. She still prefers the paper form, as do most people. She spots an interesting quote from a columnist in the business section. She wipes her pen over the newspaper's name, date, section, and page number and then circles the quote. The pen sends a message to the paper, which transmits the quote to her office.

Electronic mail arrives from the company that made her garage door opener. She lost the instruction manual, and asked them for help. They have sent her a new manual, and also something unexpected -- a way to find the old one. According to the note, she can press a code into the opener and the missing manual will find itself. In the garage, she tracks a beeping noise to where the oil-stained manual had fallen behind some boxes. Sure enough, there is the tiny tab the manufacturer had affixed in the cover to try to avoid E-mail requests like her own.

On the way to work Sal glances in the foreview mirror to check the traffic. She spots a slowdown ahead, and also notices on a side street the telltale green in the foreview of a food shop, and a new one at that. She decides to take the next exit and get a cup of coffee while avoiding the jam.

Once Sal arrives at work, the foreview helps her to quickly find a parking spot. As she walks into the building the machines in her office prepare to log her in, but don't complete the sequence until she actually enters her office. On her way, she stops by the offices of four or five colleagues to exchange greetings and news.

Sal glances out her windows: a grey day in silicon valley, 75 percent humidity and 40 percent chance of afternoon showers; meanwhile, it has been a quiet morning at the East Coast office. Usually the activity indicator shows at least one spontaneous urgent meeting by now. She chooses not to shift the window on the home office back three hours -- too much chance of being caught by surprise. But she knows others who do, usually people who never get a call from the East but just want to feel involved.

The telltale by the door that Sal programmed her first day on the job is blinking: fresh coffee. She heads for the coffee machine.

Coming back to her office, Sal picks up a tab and "waves" it to her friend Joe in the design group, with whom she is sharing a virtual office for a few weeks. They have a joint assignment on her latest project. Virtual office sharing can take many forms--in this case the two have given each other access to their location detectors and to each other's screen contents and location. Sal chooses to keep miniature versions of all Joe's tabs and pads in view and 3-dimensionally correct in a little suite of tabs in the back corner of her desk. She can't see what anything says, but she feels more in touch with his work when noticing the displays change out of the corner of her eye, and she can easily enlarge anything if necessary.

A blank tab on Sal's desk beeps, and displays the word "Joe" on it. She picks it up and gestures with it towards her liveboard. Joe wants to discuss a document with her, and now it shows up on the wall as she hears Joe's voice:

"I've been wrestling with this third paragraph all morning and it still has the wrong tone. Would you mind reading it?"

"No problem."

Sitting back and reading the paragraph, Sal wants to point to a word. She gestures again with the "Joe" tab onto a nearby pad, and then uses the stylus to circle the word she wants:

"I think it's this term 'ubiquitous'. Its just not in common enough use, and makes the whole thing sound a little formal. Can we rephrase the sentence to get rid of it?"

"I'll try that. Say, by the way Sal, did you ever hear from Mary Hausdorf?"

"No. Who's that?"

"You remember, she was at the meeting last week. She told me she was going to get in touch with you."

Sal doesn't remember Mary, but she does vaguely remember the meeting. She quickly starts a search for meetings in the past two weeks with more than 6 people not previously in meetings with her, and finds the one. The attendees' names pop up, and she sees Mary. As is common in meetings, Mary made some biographical information about herself available to the other attendees, and Sal sees some common background. She'll just send Mary a note and see what's up. Sal is glad Mary did not make the biography available only during the time of the meeting, as many people do...

In addition to showing some of the ways that computers can find their way invisibly into people's lives, this speculation points up some of the social issues that embodied virtuality will engender. Perhaps key among them is privacy: hundreds of computers in every room, all capable of sensing people near them and linked by high-speed networks, have the potential to make totalitarianism up to now seem like sheerest anarchy. Just as a workstation on a local-area network can be programmed to intercept messages meant for others, a single rogue tab in a room could potentially record everything that happened there.

Even today, although active badges and self-writing appointment diaries offer all kinds of convenience, in the wrong hands their information could be stifling. Not only corporate superiors or underlings, but overzealous government officials and even marketing firms could make unpleasant use of the same information that makes invisible computers so convenient.

Fortunately, cryptographic techniques already exist to secure messages from one ubiquitous computer to another and to safeguard private information stored in networked systems. If designed into systems from the outset, these techniques can ensure that private data does not become public. A well-implemented version of ubiquitous computing could even afford better privacy protection than exists today. For example, schemes based on "digital pseudonyms" could eliminate the need to give out items of personal information that are routinely entrusted to the wires today, such as credit card number, social security number and address.

Jim Morris of Carnegie-Mellon University has proposed an appealing general method for approaching these issues: build computer systems to have the same privacy safeguards as the real world, but no more, so that ethical conventions will apply regardless of setting. In the physical world, for example, burglars can break through a locked door, but they leave evidence in doing so. Computers built according to Morris's rule would not attempt to be utterly proof against cracker, but they would be impossible to enter without leaving the digital equivalent of fingerprints.

By pushing computers into the background, embodied virtuality will make individuals more aware of the people on the other ends of their computer links. This development carries the potential to reverse the unhealthy centripetal forces that conventional personal computers have introduced into life and the workplace. Even today, people holed up in windowless offices before glowing computer screens may not see their fellows for the better part of each day. And in virtual reality, the outside world and all its inhabitant effectively ceases to exist. Ubiquitous computers, in contrast, reside in the human world and pose no barrier to personal interactions. If anything, the transparent connections that they offer between different locations and times may tend to bring communities closer together.

My colleagues and I at PARC believe that what we call ubiquitous computing will gradually emerge as the dominant mode of computer access over the next twenty years. Like the personal computer, ubiquitous computing will enable nothing fundamentally new, but by making everything faster and easier to do, with less strain and mental gymnastics, it will transform what is apparently possible. Desktop publishing, for example, is fundamentally not different from computer typesetting, which dates back to the mid 1960's at least. But ease of use makes an enormous difference.

When almost every object either contains a computer or can have a tab attached to it, obtaining information will be trivial: "Who made that dress? Are there any more in the store? What was the name of the designer of that suit I liked last week?" The computing environment knows the suit you looked at for a long time last week because it knows both of your locations, and, it can retroactively find the designer's name even if it did not interest you at the time.

Sociologically, ubiquitous computing may mean the decline of the computer addict. In the 1910's and 1920's many people "hacked" on crystal sets to take advantage of the new high tech world of radio. Now crystal-and-cat's whisker receivers are rare, because radios are ubiquitous. In addition, embodied virtuality will bring computers to the presidents of industries and countries for nearly the first time. Computer access will penetrate all groups in society.

Most important, ubiquitous computers will help overcome the problem of information overload. There is more information available at our fingertips during a walk in the woods than in any computer system, yet people find a walk among trees relaxing and computers frustrating. Machines that fit the human environment, instead of forcing humans to enter theirs, will make using a computer as refreshing as taking a walk in the woods.

# 21 世纪的计算机

最具深远意义的技术是那些消失在我们视野里的技术。它们将自⼰融⼊⼈们的日常⽣活中以致不易被察觉。 

说到书写，它也许是第⼀种信息技术。书写是这样⼀种能⼒：它能获取⼝语的⼀种符号表述，并且能长期的在个⼈有限的记忆里存储、释放信息。现如今，这种信息技术在⼯业化国家是⽆处不在的。不仅仅是书籍、杂志和报纸传递⽂字信息，⽽且街边的标语、⼴告牌、商店的⼴告，甚⾄是墙上乱写乱画的东西都在传递⽂字信息。糖果的包装纸被⽂字覆盖着， “读写技术”是存在于这些产品上的永恒背景，不必特别的关注，但是我们只要轻轻⼀瞥，这些⽂字就会被用于传递信息，为我们所知。否则，真的很难想象现代⼈的⽣活会是什么样⼦ 。

相比之下，以硅为原材料的信息技术还远远没有融⼊周围的环境。有超过5000万台的个⼈计算机被卖出去，尽管如此，计算机基本上仍在⼀个自⼰的世界里。只有通过复杂的指令才能接触计算机，对于那些经常使用计算机的⼈，除了在计算机上跑⼀些程序，别的什么都⼲不了。计算机的艺术形态也许和这样⼀个时期相似。这个时期，在抄写员书写前，必须知道⾜够多的制造墨⽔和洪培粘⼟的知识 。

晦涩难懂的光环笼罩着个⼈电脑，不仅仅是用户交互界面不友好这⼀个问题。在施乐帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼，我和我的同事有这样⼀种想法：个⼈电脑的概念在它本身上是错位的。便携式计算机、电⼦书、和“知识导航”的愿景在取得真正的潜在的信息技术上，仅仅是在过渡阶段。这些过渡阶段的机器不可能真正的使计算成为⼈们日常⽣活中隐形的⼀部分。因此，在全世界范围内我们尝试着去孕育⼀种全新的思考计算机的⽅式，⼀种考虑到让计算机融⼊到⼈们的日常⽣活环境中并且允许计算机本身消失在周遭的环境中的⽅式。 

> Dynabook是艾伦·凯于1968年所提出的电⼦书的概念， Alan Kay 想像这是⼀台可以带着跑的电脑。艾伦·凯是帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼（ Palo Alt Research Centr）的⼀位研究员，他所描绘的Dyna Book主要使用者是小孩，帮助小孩学习。为了发展Dynabook, 艾伦甚⾄发明了Smaltalk编程语⾔，并发展出图形使用者接⼝，即是苹果麦⾦塔电脑的原型。 

这种导致计算机消失在周遭的环境里的根本的结果，不在于技术上，⽽是在于⼈们的⼼理上。每当⼈们对⼀样事情掌握的⾜够好时，就不会太注意这件事了。举⼀个例⼦，当你看到街边的标语时，你不用刻意的读出来就能理解它要传达的信息。拥有计算机科学家、经济学家、诺贝尔奖得主众多头衔的 HerbSimon称这种现象为“编译”；哲学家 Michael Polanyi称这种现象为“默会维度”；⼼理学家TK Gibson称这种现象为“视觉不变量”；哲学家 Georg Gadamer 和Martn Heidegger共同称这种现象为“⽔平线”；施乐帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼的同事John Seely Brown称这种现象为“外围”。众说纷纭，实质上，只有当我们能够不加思考、挥洒自如的运用⼀样东西，并且把注意⼒放在超越它的新目标上时，这样东西才会以我们⼼理上感知不到它们存在的⽅式消失。 

这种将计算机天衣⽆缝的⼤量融⼊世界的想法，与当前⼤多数趋势是背道⽽驰的。 “普适计算”在这种⼤环境下绝不仅仅意味着计算机能被搬运到海滩、丛林和机场。即使是可以接⼊互联⽹的性能最强劲的笔记本电脑，仍旧把注意⼒集中在⼀个单⼀的盒⼦里。类比于书写，随身携带着⼀个超级便携式计算机就像拥有⼀本非常重要的书。定制这样⼀本书，甚⾄写数百万的其它书籍，都没有开启获得书写能⼒的真正⼒量。

此外，尽管普适计算机能够使用除了⽂本和图像以外的声音和影像，但并没有使它们成为“多媒体计算机”。今天的多媒体机器使得计算机屏幕需要成为关注的焦点,⽽不是让它消失在背景里。 

也许与我们的愿景最⼤相径庭的是“虚拟现实”，它试图将整个世界都装在电脑里。用户佩戴上特殊的防护镜，防护镜映射虚拟场景到用户的眼睛里。他们佩戴⼿套或者甚⾄是⼀套衣服，这些⼿套和衣服能感知到他们的动作和⼿势，因此他们能够移动和操纵虚拟的物体。虽然虚拟现实自有它的用途，允许⼈们去探索那些难以触及的领域，例如，细胞的内部、遥远星球的表面、复杂数据库的信息⽹络。但虚拟现实仅仅是⼀张地图，并不是真正的版图。虚拟现实屏蔽了周围的桌⼦和办公室、那些没有佩戴特制眼镜和特制衣服的⼈类、天⽓、草坪、散步的⼈、偶然的相遇以及⼤体上正在逐渐扩⼤的宇宙。虚拟现实聚焦在拥有庞⼤设备的虚拟世界里，⽽不是⽆形的强化现实的世界。 

虚拟现实的愿景和普适计算的愿景之间的确存在着分歧。⽆形的计算是如此的强⼤以⾄于我们中的⼀些⼈用“嵌⼊式虚拟”这样⼀个术语来指代计算机被拖拽出电⼦外壳的进程。由于计算机可读数据的虚拟性，所有不同的⽅式都能被更改、处理、分析，所以虚拟现实进⼊⼀种现实世界的状态。 

如何才能让科技消失在周围的环境中呢？就拿消失在我们视野中的电动马达作为⼀个具有教育意义的例⼦。在世纪之交的时候，⼀个车间或者⼀家⼯厂都有⼀个动⼒引擎，它通过传动轴和轮滑系统来驱动数⼗或者数百个不同的机器。廉价、小巧、⾼效的电动马达使那样的车间和⼯厂成为现实，首先让机器或者⼯具拥有了自⼰的动⼒来源，进⽽把多个马达放在⼀个机器里。 

比如说，瞥⼀眼商店里典型汽车的用户⼿册，就会发现汽车里有22个马达和多于25个的螺丝管。它们被用来启动引擎、清理挡风玻璃、锁或者开车门，等等诸如这些。通过仔细的观察用户⼿册我们就有可能知道汽车什么时候激活了⼀个马达，但这是毫⽆意义的。就好像隐喻⼀样，⼤多数参与到嵌⼊式虚拟的计算机是⽆形的。计算机已经用在光开关、恒温控制器、立体声系统以及烤箱 上，去促进激活这个世界。这些机器以及将来更多的机器都会被接⼊到⽆处不在的⽹络里。然⽽，作为计算机科学家，我的同事和我把注意⼒都集中在能够更加直接的传输和显示信息的设备上。我们发现了两个具有决定性价值的议题：位置和比例。 相对于物理上的并存，更基本的⼀点是⼈类的感知，所以⽆处不在的计算机必须知道它们自身在哪里。 （与之相反，今天的计算机并不知道它们所处的位置和环境。）如果⼀台计算机只知道它在哪个房间，那么它就能以⼀种有意义的⽅式去调整自⼰的⾏为，并且不需要哪怕⼀点点的⼈⼯智能 。

⽆处不在的计算机将拥有不同的规格，并且每⼀个规格的计算机有不同的任务。我的同事和我已经构建了⼀种我们称之为标签、衬垫和板⼦的规格：⼀英⼨规模⼤小的机器粗略的和便利贴⼀样⼤；⼀英尺规模⼤小的机器，看起来类似⼀张纸（或者⼀本书、⼀本杂志）；以及⼀码规模⼤小的机器，等同于⿊板或公告板的规模。 

在⼀个典型的房间里，有多少个标签、衬垫和板⼦规模⼤小的书写和显示的表面呢？看看你的周围：在⼀个英⼨范围内，包含了便利贴、书背上的标题、控制器上的标签、恒温器以及钟表，还有⼀小片的纸。根据房间的⼤小，你也许会看到多于100个的标签，⼗个或⼆⼗个衬垫，以及⼀两个板⼦。这导致我们最初的嵌⼊式虚拟的硬件的部署目标是每间房里有数百台电脑。

在⼀个房间里的有数百台计算机，乍看起来是挺吓⼈的，就好像数百伏的电压⼀次性穿过墙上的电线⼀样。但是就像墙壁里的电线⼀样，这数百台计算机在常识上是不可见的。⼈们只会⽆意识的使用它们来完成日常的⼯作 。

标签是嵌⼊式虚拟中最小的组件。因为他们互相连接，标签就会在诸如袖珍计算器和袖珍助⼿这类已经存在的英⼨规模⼤小的计算机上扩展用途。标签同样会执⾏当前计算机不能完成的功能。例如， 奥利维蒂剑桥研究实验室率先开发出了活动徽章系统，现在，在帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼以及全球其它研究实验室的计算机科学家们正致⼒于别针计算机，它约雇员ID卡⼤小。这些徽章通过放置在⼀幢建筑物里的接收器进⾏自我识别，因此使追踪装备着徽章的⼈或者物体成为可能。 

在我们进⾏嵌⼊式虚拟实验的实验室，门只对正确的徽章佩戴者开放。房间按照名字迎接⼈们，电话可以被自动转向接受者⽽⽆论他在哪里，接待员实际上知道⼈们所处的位置，任何坐在计算机终端前面的⼈，计算机终端会获得他们的偏好以及他们自⼰写下的约会日志。⼈⼯智能领域不需要任何变⾰——只需要合理的将计算机嵌⼊到日常世界。自动记录的日志显示了⼀件简单的事，例如知道⼈们在什么地⽅是如何产⽣复杂的结果：以会议为例，会议是由⼏个共同在⼀个屋⼦里花费时间的⼈组成，当⼈们在那里的时候，会议的主题更像是房间里的显示器屏幕上调用的⽂档。

我的同事 Roy.Want 设计了⼀个组合了小型显示器的标签，这个标签能够同时作为⼀个活动徽章、日程表和日志⼯作。它同样也能够作为计算机屏幕的⼀个扩展来⼯作：例如，取代了程序窗⼝最小化为屏幕上的⼀个小图标，用户可以将⼀个窗⼝缩小为⼀个标签显示。这使得信息可以自由的使用屏幕，也使得⼈们能够围绕着他们的终端来安排基于计算机的项目，就像现在他们桌⼦和茶⼏上将纸质项目组成卷⼀样。把⼀个项目带到不同的办公室进⾏讨论如同集合标签⼀样简单；相关的程序和⽂件可以被任何终端设备调用。

对于规模⽽⾔，下⼀步是衬垫，⼀种⼤小介于⼀张纸和目前的膝上型和掌上型计算机之间的东西。帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼的Bob Krivacic已经构建⼀个原型衬垫。这个原型衬垫，使用了2个微处理器、⼀个⼯作站⼤小的显示器、⼀个多按钮唱针以及收音机⽹络，并且原型衬垫可以处理单个房间内的单个⼈的数百台设备。

衬垫与传统的便携式计算机有本质上的区别。与便携式计算机随着主⼈⽽动的特点不同，必须要被主⼈从⼀个地⽅带到另外⼀个地⽅的衬垫是失败的衬垫。衬垫应该是“碎片型计算机”（类似于“碎纸片”），能够在任何地⽅获得和使用；他们没有个体身份或者重要性的区别。

⼀种想法是把衬垫看做窗⼝的解药。窗⼝由帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼发明，且由Apple公司的Macintsh推⼴开来。 Macintsh计算机能够将多个不同的活动窗⼝同时放在计算机屏幕的⼀个小地⽅。在20年间，计算机屏幕没有变的更⼤。计算机窗⼝系统经常被认为是基于桌面的隐喻——但是谁会使用⼀个表面积只有
9*11英⼨的桌⼦呢？

相反的是，衬垫使用了⼀个真正的桌⼦。在桌⼦上摊开许多电⼦衬垫，就像摊开纸⼀样。面对许多任务时，将衬垫作为提醒器来使用。越过桌⼦，找到抽屉，夹⼦和茶⼏。在面前摊开当天的许多任务的许多部分来满⾜任务和适合你的胳膊和眼睛的延伸，⽽不是满⾜CRT玻璃界面的局限。 

有⼀天衬垫甚⾄可能会像真正的纸⼀样小⽽轻，但同时比计算机屏幕满⾜更多纸的功能。

码规模的显示器（板⼦）有多种用途：家庭中的电视屏幕和公告版；办公室中的公告板，白板或者活动挂图。板⼦也可以作为可以下载⽂本到衬垫或标签的电⼦书柜。尽管如此，目前，抽出⼀本书并将它舒服的放在某⼈膝盖上的特性⼀直是纸张的众多吸引⼒之⼀。类似的异议倾向于将⼀个板⼦当成⼀个桌面来使用；在嵌⼊式虚拟更加精进之前，⼈们必须习惯于将桌⼦上的垫⼦和标签当成是计算机屏幕的⼀个附属物品来使用。

目前，由帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼的Richard Bruce和Scot Elrod开发的板⼦尺⼨为40*60英⼨，并且能够显示1024*768的⿊白像素。为了操纵屏幕，用户选择⼀块⽆线的电⼦“粉笔”，这个电⼦粉笔既可以和屏幕接触⼯作又可以隔着⼀段距离⼯作。有些研究者把自⼰和同事作为豚鼠，举⾏电⼦中介式的会议或者围绕⼀个电⼦⿊板进⾏其他形式的合作。其他⼈将板⼦作为改善了硬件显示、新“粉笔”和交互式软件的试验台。

⽆论是明显的还是微妙的原因，驱动⼤的、共享的显示器及其电⼦粉笔的软件与⼯作站的软件并不相同。电⼦粉笔和键盘之间的前后切换可能包含多个步骤，因此这种⾏为在本质上不同于使用⼀个键盘和⼀个鼠标。另外，体积⼤小是个问题，不是所有⼈都可以够到板⼦的顶端，因此Macintsh风格的菜单条可能不是⼀个好主意。

我们已经构建了⾜够多的电⼦⿊板允许临时的使用，它们被放置在普通的会议室和空旷区域，⼈们在使用前不需要登记或者提前通知。通过构建和使用这些板⼦，研究⼈员开始体验到并理解这样⼀个世界，在这个世界里每个房间里的计算机的交互偶然得到强化。每个房间的世界现场板可以在房间内部和之间被有用的共享。在由EuroPARC的Paul Dourishh和PARC的Sara Bly以及FrankHalasz发起的试验中， ⼴泛分离站点的小组在板⼦周围聚集， 每⼀个展示着同样的图像，并且联合组成图片和绘画。他们甚⾄共享了横跨Atlantc的两块板⼦。

电⼦⿊板也可以被当成公告板来使用。由于已经有很多的数据供⼈们阅读和完全的理解，因此帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼的Marvin Teimer和David Nichols构建了⼀个为阅读信息的⼈们协调公共信息的原型系统。 他们的“分数板”需要极少或者不需要来自用户的交互，比起去寻找和佩戴活动徽章。原型标签、衬垫和板⼦仅仅是普适计算的开始。这个概念的真正⼒量并不来自于这些设备中的任何⼀个；它表现在这些设备之间的交互。上百个处理器和显示屏不是如同鼠标和窗⼝⼀般的“用户界面”，仅仅是⼀个舒适的、⾼效的做事
的“地⽅”。

最令⼈愉快和⾼效的地⽅在于标签可以使以前具有惰性的对象充满活⼒。它们发出蜂鸣声来帮助定位错误放置的报纸，书籍或其他物品。⽂件橱柜可以在不需要搜索的情况下自动打开并且显示所需要的⽂件夹。图书馆目录的标签可以⽣成任何书籍的活动地图并且指导搜索者找到它， 甚⾄是当它已经下架，被上⼀个阅读者放在桌⼦上的时候。在自我陈述中，⽂本在⾼悬着的幻灯片上所占的尺⼨，放⼤器的音量，甚⾄是周遭光线的数量，都是由此刻在房间中的听众的需求所决定的，⽽不是由偶然的、猜测的判断来决定的。即时投票和舆论检查的软件⼯具在⼤型机构的电⼦会议室中已经有特别使用。标签可以使其更加普及。 

普适计算所需的技术分为三部分：便宜的、低能耗的计算机和与之配套的易用的显示器，将它们连接在⼀起的⽹络以及实现了⽆处不在应用程序的软件系统。当前趋势表明第⼀个需求很容易被满⾜， 640*480⿊白像素的平板显示器很常见。这是PC显示器的标准⼤小，同样也适合电视机。随着膝上型，掌上型和笔记本计算机持续流⾏，显示器价格将会下落，分辨率和质量会上升。在10年后， 1000*800像素的⾼对比度的显示器厚度不超过1厘米，重约100克。⼀个小型电池将提供数天续航。

⼤型显示器在某种程度上是另外⼀件事情。如果⼀个交互式的计算机屏幕配合⼀块有用的白板使用， 它必须满⾜在⼿臂长度范围和横跨房间范围内都是可视的。对于近距离观察，对于近距离观察，像素的密度不能比标准的计算机屏幕差，⼤约每英⼨80像素。在⼏英尺的区域内保持每英⼨80个像素密度意味着能显示上千万个像素。今天所能制造的最⼤的计算机屏幕也只有这个像素级别的四分之⼀。如此⼤的显示器⼤概会很贵，但它们必定是可以购得的。与此同时，中央处理器单元的处理速度在1986年达到了每秒⼀百万条指令，并且持续每年翻倍。⼯业观察家们认为这种原始芯片速度呈指数级增长可能开始于1994年的⽔平，但是对于其它的性能测量⽅法，包括能耗和辅助功能，也会改善。 100克的平板显示器可能由单个微处理器芯片驱动，每秒执⾏10亿条指令，包含16M板上内存字节以及声音，图像和⽹络接⼝。这样⼀个处理器平均所需要的能耗仅仅是显示器的百分之⼏。

辅助存储设备可以增⼤内存容量。对当前技术的保守推断表明，每个书本⼤小的可移动硬盘（或者等价的非易失性存储芯片）能存储⼤约60兆字节的信息。包含⼏千兆字节信息的更⼤的磁盘将会成为标准化的磁盘，同时T级别的存储器（⼤致等于美国国会图书馆的容量）将会很常见。如此庞⼤的存储并不⼀定会装满有用的信息。不管怎样，充裕的存储空间允许完全不同的信息管理策略。例如，在万亿字节的空间上删除旧⽂件是根本没必要的。

尽管在10年后，处理器和显示器应该有能⼒提供普适计算，软件和⽹络科技⽅面的趋势有更多的问题。今天的软件系统很少的利用计算机⽹络的任何优势。 “分布式计算”的趋势则是使得⽹络如同硬盘，内存或者其他非⽹络设备⼀样，⽽不是去探索物理分布上的独⼀⽆⼆的性能。这些挑战体现在操作系统和窗⼝系统的设计上。

今天的操作系统，如DOS和Unix，在内核中预设了⼀个相对固定的硬件和软件配置。这对⼤型主机和个⼈计算机都有意义，因为在不关机时，硬件或操作系统软件不能被合理的加载。但是在嵌⼊式虚拟中，本地设备来来去去，取决于房间和房间内的⼈。新设备的新软件可能在任何时候被用到，⽽你绝不可能⼀次关掉房间内的所有设备。实验室内的“微内核”操作系统，提供了⼀种解决⽅案。如CMU的Rick Rashid和位于阿姆斯特丹的Vrije⼤学的Andy Tanenbaum开发的系统。未来，基于功能性的微型内核的操作系统可能会自动收缩和增长，以适应普适计算的不断变化的需求。

今天的窗⼝系统，如Windows 3.0和X Window，假设了⼀个在其上显示信息的拥有固定基座的计算机。虽然它们可以多屏处理任务， 但不能很好的处理那些在⼀个地⽅（屏幕，计算机或者房间）开始，然后移动到另⼀个地⽅的应用程序。对于更⾼的性能，他们设定⼀个固定屏幕和输⼊模式，并使用本地计算机存储应用程序的信息，如果有任何的变化，窗⼝系统就停⽌为这个应用程序⼯作。即使像X窗⼝这种被设计用于⽹络的系统，也存在这样的问题， X窗⼝系统假定应用程序⼀旦启动，就会保持在那里。这个问题的解决⽅案在萌芽阶段。共享窗⼝系统，例如由布朗⼤学和惠普公司开发的系统，对窗⼝有益，但性能上存在问题，并且不是所有的应用程序都能在上面⼯作。在嵌⼊式虚拟中，没有系统能够处理好输⼊多样性的问题。⼀个更普遍的解决办法将需要改变应用程序与窗⼝交互的协议。

连接计算机的⽹络有它自身的挑战。⼀⽅面，有线和⽆线⽹络的数据传输速率正在迅速增加。使用千兆每秒的有线⽹络已经成为可能，尽管很昂贵，但将逐渐变得便宜。（千兆⽹络很少将其所有的带宽用于⼀个单独的数据流；相反，他们允许⼤量低速的传输同时进⾏。）基于数字移动电话原理的小型⽆线⽹络，目前在⼏百米范围内提供的数据传输速率在2到10兆比特每秒之间。低能耗的⽆线⽹络在每个站点间以每秒25000比特的传输速率传递数据，⽽这种⽹络将会商业化。

另⼀⽅面，有线⽹络和⽆线⽹络间的透明化连接是⼀个尚未解决的问题。虽然已经研制出⼀些权宜之计，但⼯程师们仍需要开发出新的移动通信协议，这个协议能够明确辨认出机器在物理空间上移动的概念。此外，在⼤多数⽆线⽹络的⽅案中设想的信道数仍旧很少，并⽽范围⼤（ 50-100平⽅米），因此使得移动设备的总数量受到严格限制。这样⼀个系统不具备在每个房间支持数以百计的机器的能⼒。基于红外或者新的电磁技术的独立房间有⾜够多的信道来容纳⽆处不在的计算机，但仅仅在室内。当前的技术需要移动设备连接到三种不同的⽹络链接上：小范围的⽆线，远程⽆线和⾼速有线。⼀个能提供所有功能的单⼀的⽹络连接还没有被发明。既不是对普适计算原理的阐述，也不是⼀个所需技术的清单，这些技术能够给我们⼀种真实的感觉：在⼀个充满着⽆形的小⼯具的世界里⽣活是什么样⼦。   

从今天的嵌⼊式虚拟的简陋片段进⾏推断，类似于在发明了在陶瓷板上书写之后，就能试图预测出Finnegan’s Wake的出版。然⽽，努⼒也许是值得的。

Sal醒过来了：咖啡的香味已经充斥在整个房间。就在她醒来的⼏分钟前，她焦躁的滚动身⼦，她的闹钟已经悄悄地问道， “需要咖啡吗？ ” 她含糊不清的说：“需要。 

”“需要”和“不需要”是它唯⼀知道的单词。

Sal透过窗户看到她的邻居。阳光和栅栏通过⼀扇窗映⼊眼帘，但是透过其他的窗⼝她看到了早晨邻居们留下的进进出出的电⼦轨迹。隐私权公约和实时数据传输禁⽌显示录像，但是时间标记和附近地图上的电⼦轨迹使得Sal感觉⾛在街道上很舒适。

瞥了⼀眼孩⼦房间的窗⼝，看到他们在15到20分钟前已经起床了并且到了厨房。孩⼦们注意到妈妈起床了，于是他们制造了更多的噪声。

早饭期间， Sal阅读新闻。和⼤多数⼈⼀样，她仍然喜欢纸质的报纸。她从商务板块点了⼀个专栏作家的有趣的引用。她用笔扫描报纸的名称，日期和页码，然后把那句引用圈了起来。这支笔给报纸发送了⼀条信息，以便将这个引用传送到她的办公室。

从汽车公司发来了车库门打开器的电⼦邮件。她弄丢了指导⼿册，要求他们提供帮助。他们发给她⼀本新的⼿册，以及⼀些出乎意料的东西：找到旧⼿册的⽅法。根据说明，她按下打开器的⼀个代码，丢失的⼿册就会被找到。在车库里，她循着⼀阵蜂鸣声在⼀些盒⼦后面找到了被汽油污染了的⼿册。果然，制造商已经将⼀个小标签贴在封面， 避免像她这样的电⼦邮件请求。

在上班的路上， Sal扫了⼀眼前视镜来检查交通状况。她选择提前减速，同时注意到街边⼀家食品店前的绿⾊交通灯和在那里的新的灯。她决定选择下⼀个出⼝，并且在避免堵塞的同时，买⼀杯咖啡。

⼀旦Sal抵达⼯作地点，前视镜可以帮助她很快找到⼀个停车位。当她⾛进建筑物时，办公室里面的机器准备给她做登记，直到她坐在办公室，这个过程才算结束。在去办公室的路上，她在四五个同事的办公室停下来，打打招呼聊聊新闻。

Sal看了⼀眼窗外：硅⾕糟糕天⽓的⼀天， 75%的湿度并且午后有40%的⼏率下雨；期间，她在东海岸的办公室度过了⼀个安静的早晨。通常的活动指标表明，目前⾄少会有⼀个自发的紧急情况。她选择三个小时不打开家里书房的窗户，太有可能发⽣意外了。 但是她知道有谁这样做了，通常是那些从来不会接到从
东部打来的电话，但只是希望有参与感的⼈们。

门边的提醒器正在闪烁，这是Sal在⼯作的第⼀天就设定好的提醒：新鲜咖啡。
她⾛向咖啡机。

回到办公室后， Sal拿起⼀个标签并向同⼀设计组的同事Joe挥舞， Joe和Sal共享虚拟的办公室已经好⼏周了。在她最近的项目上， Joe和她有⼀项共同的任务。共享的虚拟办公室有许多形式，在这种形式中，他们能够接⼊对⽅的位置探测器、获得对⽅屏幕上的内容以及对⽅的位置。 Sal选择把有关Joe的标签和衬垫都
微缩在自⼰的视野范围内，以及她桌⼦的后面角落里的标签套件进⾏三维修正。她看不到任何⼈说的话，当她眼角的余光注意到显示器发⽣变化时，她能够更多地接触到他的⼯作。 如果有需要，她能够轻易的放⼤任何窗⼝。

Sal桌⼦上的⼀个空白标签发出蜂鸣声，上面显示“Joe”这个单词。她拿起标签并朝着她的电⼦⿊板做⼿势。 Joe希望与她讨论⼀份⽂件，并且现在这个⽂件显示在墙上，同时她也听到Joe的声音：
“ 我整个早上都纠缠在第三个段，但它仍然有错误的音调。你介意读⼀下它
吗？ ”

“没问题”

Sal坐回位置开始阅读这个自然段，她想要标出⼀个单词。她又⼀次将“Joe”的标签指向⼀个临近的“衬垫”，然后开始使用尖笔来圈住她想要的单词：“我认为是这个单词‘ubiquitus’，它日常使用不够多，并且使得整段看起来有⼀点正式化。我们能够修改这个句⼦来摆脱这个单词吗？ ”

“我试试看。对了Sal，你听说过Mary Hausdorf吗？ ”

“没有。是谁呀？ ”“你应该记得，上周的会议上我们见过她。她告诉我将会跟你联系。 ”

Sal不记得Mary了，但她依稀记得那个会议。她迅速开始对过去两周内参加的会议进⾏搜索 ，并且在这个会议上有多于6个以前不曾和她见过面的⼈，然后找到了⼀个。出席者的名字弹了出来，她看到了Mary的名字。如同会议上常用的做法， Mary做了⼀些其他参加者可以看到的有关她自⼰的个⼈信息， Sal看见了⼀些Mary的常规背景。她将会给Mary发⼀条信息看看会发⽣什么。让Sal感到⾼兴的是，和⼤多数⼈的做法⼀样， Mary没有使这些个⼈信息只是在会议期间可以获得。

除了展示计算机可以悄⽆声息的融⼊⼈们⽣活的⼏种⽅式外，这种猜测指出了嵌⼊式虚拟可能产⽣的⼀些社会问题。在这些问题中也许最关键的就是隐私：每个房间有数百台电脑，每台都能够感知到附近的⼈类并且它们通过⾼速⽹络连接起来，这可能造成极权主义者的极端⽆政府状态。正如局域⽹中的⼀个⼯作站可能被编程来拦截他⼈的邮件，房间中的⼀个独立流氓标签也可能记录那里发⽣的⼀切。

即使在今天，虽然活动徽章和自我记录的日记提供各种⽅便，如果信息掌握在了不法分⼦⼿中则是令⼈郁闷的。不仅仅是公司的上下级之间，连热情的政府官员甚⾄市场推⼴公司都会因为使用这种⽆形的⽅便所产⽣的信息⽽造成不愉快。

幸运的是，能够确保邮件从⼀台⽆处不在的计算机到另⼀台以及到存储在⽹络系统上的私⼈信息加密技术已经存在。如果从⼀开始，这项技术便被设计到系统中，就可以确保私⼈数据不会被公开。普适计算的⼀个良好的实现版本，甚⾄可能比目前所提供的技术更好的隐私保护。例如，基于“数字匿名”的计划消除了这种给出⼀系列个⼈信息的需求，今天这些个⼈信息我们通常都委托在⽹络上。比如说，信用卡号码，社保安全号码和地址。

科内基梅隆⼤学的Jim Morris提出了⼀个极具吸引⼒的处理这些问题的⼀般⽅法：建立具有如同真实世界⼀样的隐私保障计算机系统并且不能超越现实世界，这样⽆论怎样的设置，道德公约仍然适用。例如，在现实世界中，窃贼可以打破⼀个锁着的门，但这样做的同时，他们留下了证据。根据Morris构建的系统规则，不会试图彻底的针对⿊客，但他们将⽆法在不留下电⼦指纹的同时进⼊系统。

通过让计算机融⼊背景中，嵌⼊式虚拟将会使个⼈更多的注意到连接在计算机另⼀端的⼈们。这种发展具有能够扭转传统个⼈计算机带⼊⽣活和⼯作中不健康的向⼼⼒的潜⼒。即使在今天，⼈们坐在没有窗户的办公室里，面前是闪烁的计算机屏幕，可能看不到每⼀天他们同事的更好的部分。在虚拟现实中，外部世界和及其所有居民有效的停⽌了存在。相反的是，⽆所不在的计算机嵌⼊⼈类世界并且对⼈与⼈之间的交互不构成任何障碍。如果有任何作用，它们提供的在不同地区和时间中的透明的联系可能会带来更加紧密的社区关系。

我和我在帕洛阿尔托研究中⼼的同事相信在未来20年里，我们称作普适计算的东西会逐渐作为接⼊计算机的统治模式出现。如同个⼈计算机⼀样，普适计算没有什么本质上的创新，但会使得所有事物更快和更加容易处理。 随着更少的压⼒和精神折磨，它将会改变表面上可能的事情。 例如，⾄少可追溯到1960年中期的桌面印刷，在本质上并没有不同于计算机排版。但是在易用性上却有巨
⼤的差异。

当⼏乎所有的对象都链接到计算机或有⼀个可连接到计算机的标签，获取信息将会变成⼀件小事： “谁做了那条裙⼦？商店里面还有其他的吗？上周我喜欢的那件衣服的设计师的名字是什么？ ”计算知道上周你很长时间盯着看的那件衣服，因为它既知道你的位置，也可以回溯找出设计师的名字，即使当时你对它
并不感兴趣。

从社会学来说，普适计算可能意味着计算机瘾的衰退。在1910年和到920年之间，许多⼈利用⽆线电领域的⾼新技术“⿊”掉晶体⽆线电接收机。 现在⽔晶猫胡须接收器（ crystal-and-cat’s whisker receivers）很稀少了，因为⽆线电已经泛在了。此外，嵌⼊式虚拟将会首次把计算机推向⼯业领域和城市的领导地位。
计算机将会被接⼊和渗透到所有的社会群体。

最重要的是，⽆处不在的计算机将有助于克服信息过载的问题。与任何计算机系统相比，当我们漫步在丛林中，我们指尖可获得更多的信息，然后⼈们发现林中散步的放松与计算机的沮丧。适合⼈类环境⽽不是迫使⼈类进⼊其中的机器，将会使⼈们在使用⼀台计算机时就像漫步在丛林里⼀般轻松惬意。 